First the file was tidied up and then it was decided to use the averages of each timepoint instead of performing ANOVA analysis. The resulting file contained the average expression data of about 12,000 records which contains some duplicates with different ID’s as well as aliases. 

In order to solve this problem a python script was written to prioritize the unique expression data with Systematic IDs, Standard IDs, and SGD IDs respectively. After that, all the IDs needed to be transformed into systematic IDs, so another python script was written to perform that task.

At this point all the unique data was selected with the correct ID format, which was then used in STEM clustering method. The clustering analysis showed 8 significant profiles of which the first 4 were chosen for further analysis. Then, YEASTRACT website was used to infer which transcription factors regulate a cluster of genes. Of those 4 profiles the top 15 significant transcription factors from each profile were used to create the adjacency matrices which were then visualized in GRNsight using the corrected format to check whether all the nodes are connected. Same networks were created using SGD database for the purposes of comparison. 

The next step was to create input workbooks for each of the 4 networks from Yeastract and SGD database. After those input workbooks were created, GRNmap was run on each of the input workbooks to estimate the edge weights in each network. The analysis could not be pursued further because the experiment done in the Apweiler 2012 paper uses a different approach to measure the gene expression data (they most probably compared the gene expression of wild type to mutant type that is different from self to self-comparison which is the approach taken in our lab). So, the MatLab code written to estimate the edge weight would not be accurate to use for this set of data.
